●

“Report of Prince Cassisus’ Murder, Year 3229, Month 8: DOCUMENT, Tyrannius’
Inquisition, HISTORICAL RECORD, DOCUMENT DISTINCTION: EVIDENCE, UNKNOWN
ORIGINS.”

When I was a child, rumors of a dark elf pervaded my village. I know the
whispers to be true. Noises came from the forest late one night. My Father was
away with my Uncle on a hunting trip. My Mother, baby sister cradled against
her, would not stir to my voice. I went to see for myself. Just past the tree
line darkness hung as I moved thru the field. Then I saw something. It appeared
as an illusion first, a ripple in water, then I saw him. His eyes were radiant
like the dying furnace of a distant star, skin faintly luminescent in the
moonlight. “You see me, child.” His lips but shadow smirked to show white teeth. 
I could not move. “Speak and my blade glints.” He turned his head, features
sharpened, then looked back to me. “My steel yearns for blood, but they come for
you.” His appearance became mercurial once more and disappeared. A patrol
approached and found me. They questioned and asked, but I did not speak a word.
Weeks later news arrived that the Prince had been murdered in his bed.

●

“Letter to King Theadius (Ruler of the Age of Theadius, Fifty-First Age of the
Golden Era) From Tyrannius, Year 3226, Month 5: REQUEST, Tyrannius’ Appeal to
The Kingdom for Financial Assistance, HISTORICAL RESEARCH.”

King Theadius,

Solarium Celebratio.

In the age of Kineseas, Fortieth Age of The Golden Era, the written record
speaks of rivers of blood that scarred the land for almost two years. This time
is referred to as The Queen’s Grief. While there is very little description of
the time contained within the written record, the events influenced decades and
centuries that came after. 

The missing of any data referring to The Queen’s Grief has been noted in modern
investigations. However, no historian of the modern era has noted searching for
or finding the lost records. It is common knowledge that many of the greatest
works within the Kingdom’s library were found in The Time of Spoil. Not one
record of The Queen’s Grief was found during that period.

In conversations amongst researchers and historians, the agreed upon consensus is
that the records do exist. However, the Kingdom’s library does not contain them.
When the primary researcher at the Kingdom’s library, Fara Deltin, was
questioned about their existence, she confessed to me with a faint sense of
gratitude and melancholy: “They do not exist here.” She explained to me that she
had lived much of her life in pursuit of the records, expecting them to be
hidden within the library’s catacombs. Works have been found hidden the archives
and forgotten parts of the library’s catacombs, however rare the occurrence.

Her grandfather believed the written word would answer questions of their family
lineage. The family origins suggest a link to the instutition of the Kingdom’s
records for the court in the time before The Queen’s Grief. Due to the record
keeping of the Kingdom, of which you are well aware, it is suggestive of
intervention from royalty itself as for the explanation of the records’
misplacement. Previous eras have obliquely mentioned the documents, but only if
one understands the context of the misplacement do the suggestions become clear.

I hereby request your blessing and the Kingdom’s backing, King Theadius, to seek
the lost records of The Queen’s Grief.

When the words of the realm are unwritten, answers must be sought.

Servant of the Kingdom,

Tyrannius, Extremis XXVII, Historical Researcher to the Kingdom

●

“Entry on The Time of Spoil, Year 76,200,156, Month 8: DOCUMENT, Taken from
‘Know Everything and Nothing All at Once,’ ed. 47, HISTORICAL RECORD.”

The beloved words which began The Time of Spoil: “Have you seen inside a rich
man’s castle?”

Decreed by The Maniac King, Gessip, Ruler of the Age of Upheaval, Forty-Sixth
Age of the Golden Era, the Kingdom put forward a ransom and reward for the
retrieval of artifacts, weapons, armour, art, more, within and beyond the
Kingdom. While this led to the expansion of the Kingdom thru annexation, a
consolidation of power and an era of common wealth, the ensuing decades which
followed are agreed to have brought about social disorder, chaos and a sense of
change among the citizens of The Kingdom, a unification once known now lost to
time.

The grandest of those tales is the basis for the well known children’s book,
“The Merrymen and Their Plunder.” At the request of Princess Helena, Queen to
Be, on her thirteenth birthday, every household of The Kingdom was provided a
copy of “The Merrymen and Their Plunder” in celebration by her Father, King
Laeonus. Of course only the happiest pieces of the adventure exist within the
book, specifically finding The First Sword. 

For a comprehensive, historical retelling, one only need to seek “The
Advenetures of Merrymen,” a tale of grand adventure, kinship, selflessness,
betrayal, the amassing of riches unknown, murder, assumption of power and the
ultimate, tragic downfall of the hero, Kadian. It is the tale that has told a
thousand others.

●

“Entry on The Origin of the Xaxians, Year 76,200,156, Month 8: DOCUMENT, Taken
from ‘Know Everything and Nothing All at Once,’ ed. 47, HISTORICAL RECORD.”

Long since spacetime gone, extinguished from the face of the universe by a
supernova turned black hole, the Super Earth, JADES-GS-z14-0-XAX014 d, is
considered one of the most compelling planets logged inside The Annals of
Universal Record. Known for its contributions to Pax Dominion, and The
Dominion’s spread across the Universe, its historical record and knowledge base
are among the oldest of The Lineage. The grand scale of the fabled Super Earth
and its citizenry are foundational of The Dominion as many Xaxian descendants
hold reign among the highest offices of The Dominion. 

The term “Xaxian Affect,” of the common vernacular, refers to the sensation many
entrant civilizations feel when told the tales of the Xaxians. Many new entrants
have questioned the tales as they are often similar to their own fictions and
dreamscapes of reality. When questioned of their similar disbelief of other
civilizations throughout the universe before being absorbed into The Dominion, 
many new citizens retort: “I see what you did there.” It can never truly be
understated the value the Xaxians present to The Dominion. The Xaxians are so
foundational to life throughout the universe that many found civilizations are
speculated to have forgotten their ancestry to the original Xaxian civilization.
This theory has pervaded The Dominion’s thought for millenia. Due to the
variation of genealogy spread thruout spacetime, a true determination cannot be
made beyond speculation in this, the Seventy-Sixth Millionth Age of Pax
Dominion.

●

“Confessions of a murderer, written in ink and blood, Year 2859, The Time of
Spoil: DOCUMENT, TALE, Retrieved by Fernst of Merrymen, HISTORICAL RECORD,
DOCUMENT DISTINCTION: UNKNOWN ORIGINS, THE KING IN YELLOW.”

The Sun sets in the West. The air is warm. A cool wind left from Winter cuts
across the South. I hear nothing else. No animals or insects. This silence is
not known to me. 

I will not light a fire. In the light I see the child. Her spirit taunts me from
the corner of the room. She mocks me, slanders me. 

It was in the Talipese Mountains. I journeyed for a year and searched to reach
The King’s Crypt. They told me its location had been forgotten. They dared not
get as close as I. They told me not to go into the crypt. I did not believe
them. I thought them fools forgotten by The Kingdom long ago.

My guides refused to tell me how to enter. What I asked of them had been
forgotten. The last man entered the crypt over a century ago and was never seen
again. I did not listen.

The crypt was sealed in Elvish tongue. For three days I sat at the entrance
until the forgotten words were spoken. The crypt opened. Sounds as if a final
dying gasp escaped. I lit my torch and entered the darkness.

I have seen the King adorned in golden robe, patterns shifted about the air.
Out there in the unfolded reaches, eternal patience, shrouded, garments made of
the original night, names writ in darkness and whispered through the night. He
speaks your name and awaits in the dark.

I reached this home by foot. I do not know how long it has been. They’re all
dead, and I killed them. I cannot understand myself. She’s still there. I see
her dress in the light. She scolds me.

The early morning rain comes. I hear thunder clatter in the distance. The lamp
fades and shadows crawl the room. I can hear my name being called in the wind.

